# <Repository Title>

<General notes: add as much information as is relevant for your repository. Some overarching guidelines are provided, but feel free to expand on these guidelines.>
<More resources found here: https://www.dataone.org/all-best-practices>
<Delete the text inside the brackets when formatting your file.>

## Summary

<describe the purpose of this repository, the information it contains, and any relevant analysis goals. What, why, where, when, how?>

This repository answers the following questions:

1. (a) When consumers buy seafood, which species do they prefer?  (b) Do they prefer wild or farmed fish?
2. (a) What qualities do consumers associate with wild vs. farmed seafood?  (b) What qualities do they value in seafood?
3. Are seafood values predicted by demographic variables such as age or education level?

## Investigators

Research:
Dr. Luke Fairbanks, University of Southern Mississippi, luke.fairbanks@usm.edu, Investigator
Dr. Grant Murray, Duke University, grant.murray@duke.edu, Investigator
University of Maine, Investigator
The Coastal Studies Institute, Investigator
North Carolina Sea Grant, Funder

## Keywords

seafood, consumer preferences, coastal communities, aquaculture, mariculture, commercial fisheries

## Database Information

<describe the origin of all data in the repository, including data collected from outside sources and new data generated by the investigator(s). If data was accessed from an outside database, the date(s) of data access should also be included.>

Data were collected from North Carolina residents via a Qualtrics survey conducted in the summer of 2020.  Respondents were asked 37 questions about their seafood eating habits, preferences, and attitudes.  Demographic data were also obtained.

## Folder structure and files 

Data: Contains folders for Raw data and Processed data
Plots: Contains .png files for charts developed from the analysis

Working_File.Rmd: Scratch workspace for code in development

Final_rmd.Rmd: Final Project submission file with finalized code and text

## Metadata: AquacultureSurveyData.csv

Below is a listing of the survey questions and possible responses.

Frequency: In the past year, how often did you eat the following type of seafood?
    0 = Never
    1 = Once in the past year
    2 = A few times in the past year
    3 = Once a month
    4 = A few times every month
    5 = Once a week
    6 = More than once a week
    
Where: Where do you most often get your seafood?
    1 = Caught or grown myself
    2 = Caught or grown by a friend or family member
    3 = Grocery store
    4 = Restaurant
    5 = Seafood market
    6 = Commercial fishermen or seafood farmer
    7 = Community supported fishery (CSF)
    8 = Other
    
Form: In what form do you most often get your seafood?
    1 = Fresh
    2 = Frozen
    3 = Canned
    4 = Smoked
    5 = Prepared (e.g. in a restaurant)
    6 = Other
    
Preference: Between wild-caught and farmed versions of the same seafood species, which do you prefer to eat?
    1 = Strongly prefer wild-caught
    2 = Slightly prefer wild-caught
    3 = No preference
    4 = Slightly prefer farmed
    5 = Strongly prefer farmed
    6 = I don't know
    
Qualities: How do you associate the following qualities with different types of seafood (farmed and wild-caught)?
    1 = More associated with wild-caught
    2 = Associated equally with wild-caught and farmed
    3 = More associated with farmed
    4 = Associated with neither wild-caught or farmed
    5 = I don't know
    
Importance: When you are buying seafood, how important are the following qualities to you?
    1 = Not at all important
    2 = Slightly important
    3 = Moderately important
    4 = Very important
    5 = Extremely important
    
WTP: How much more are you willing to pay for seafood with the following qualities?
    0 = 0%
    1 = about 10% more
    2 = About 25% more
    3 = About 50% more
    4 = Greater than 50% more
    
Covid_Importance: After COVID-19 and its impacts, has there been a change in the importance of the following qualities when you are buying seafood?
    1 = Less important
    2 = No change
    3 = More important
    
Rank (Mariculture): Which considerations do you think are important when managing mariculture? Please rank your top 3 choices, in order, by dragging and dropping them into place. (1 being most important.)
    Coastal Development
    Heritage
    State Economy
    Sustainability
    Small Business
    Wages
    Trade Deficit
    Food Security
    Wild
    Farmed

Local_Seafood: What do you consider local seafood? Local seafood is seafood that comes from... Coded to highest jurisdiction level selected as "local"
    1 = My town
    2 = My county
    3 = My state (NC)
    4 = The Southeast US (VA to FL)
    5 = The East Coast (ME to FL)
    6 = The US
    7 = Other
    
Benefit_Local: In your mind, what are the benefits of buying local seafood?
    0 = No opinion or don't know
    1 = Freshness
    2 = Affordability
    3 = Good for local economies
    4 = Tasty
    
Rate: Please answer to the best of your ability, and rate the following statements based on how much they represent the way you think. 
    - Shellfish mariculture is really a win-win-win. It’s good for the environment, you’re able to produce stuff that’s good to eat, and it creates good revenue for a grower.
    - There’s a lot of people in the mainland that aren’t eating oysters yet that don’t even know they’re going to love oysters. There’s markets that need to be opened up still. The future is really bright, there’s a lot of potential.
    - Regulations on fishing are definitely needed, but in the right balance, in the right context.
    - The fishermen don’t get nearly as much money for their product as they should, because of the way the market’s set up. It’s due to imports and the local dealers not really seeking better markets for the product.
    - Big companies have the same right as local families and farmers to get mariculture leases in state waters.
    - Losing commercial fishing means losing a heritage and tradition that is passed down from generation to generation, grandfathers and fathers and uncles and cousins.
    - Growing seafood production is important not just locally, but because we have more and more people that need healthy food and the U.S. can’t just keep importing everything we eat.
    - Oyster farms are like wild oyster reefs because juvenile fish and crustaceans and everything hang around there. So that actually makes fishing around a farm even better.
    - The next generation of fishing is aquaculture.
    - You should be a resident to get a mariculture lease. People from out of state shouldn’t have the same access to our waters.
    - There’s no doubt in my mind you can overfish fisheries. Left to their own devices, it’s hard for fishermen to cut back.
    - That’s what the fish are there for. To be harvested for us, you know. That’s what God put them in the water for.
    
Rank (NC fishing): Please rank the following perspectives based on how much they represent the way you think. Drag and drop the statements to rank them, with 1 (top) being most like how you think and 4 (bottom) being least like how you think.
    - Growing the North Carolina seafood industry is critical to sustaining our coastal communities and economies, whether it is through traditional commercial fishing, a new focus on growing the shellfish aquaculture sector, or a combination of both.
    - When it comes to North Carolina seafood, expanding shellfish aquaculture should take priority over commercial fishing because it is more scientifically sound  and provides environmental benefits to our coastal waters.
    - The North Carolina commercial fishing industry is negatively impacted by a number of forces, including unfair seafood import prices and competition from shellfish aquaculture, so it is important that we find ways to allow commercial fishermen to continue their livelihoods and grow their industry  with fewer impediments from regulation and competition.
    - Commercial fishing is the backbone of North Carolina’s coastal communities and seafood industry, and even though locally-run shellfish aquaculture might fit into the coastal picture, it will never replace commercial fishermen and what they provide to their communities.
    
Knowledge_Production: How knowledgeable do you consider yourself about seafood production? Seafood production includes mariculture and commercial fishing.
    0=Not knowledgeable at all
    1=Slightly knowledgeable
    2=Moderately knowledgeable
    3=Very knowledgeable
    4=Extremely knowledgeable
    
Frequency_NC_Coast: About how often are you on the North Carolina coast?
    0=Never
    1=Less than once a year
    2=Once a year
    3=A few times a year
    4=Once a month
    5=A few times a month
    6=Once a week
    7=I have a second home there
    8=It is my primary residence
    
Involvement: Do you or a family member commercially fish or farm seafood (Involvement_Commercial)? Do you or a family member fish or farm seafood for fun (Involvement_Recreational)?
    0=Neither
    1=Both
    2=Farm
    3=Fish
    
Eat_Catch: Do you or your family eat the seafood you catch or farm?
    0=Never
    1=Sometimes
    2=About half the time
    3=Most of the time
    4=Always

Distance_NC_Coast: 
    0=I live right beside the water
    1=1-5 miles
    2=6-10 miles
    3=11-25 miles
    4=25-50 miles
    5=51-100 miles
    6=100 miles or farther
    7=Prefer not to answer

Zip code

Age_corrected:
    1=19 or younger
    2=20-29
    3=30-39
    4=40-49
    5=50-59
    6=60-69
    7=70 or older
    8=Prefer not to answer

Gender:
    1=Female
    2=Male
    3=Non-binary
    4=Other
    5=Prefer not to answer 
    
Education: What is the highest level of education that you have attained?
    1=Less than high school
    2=High school graduate
    3=Some college
    4=2 year degree
    5=4 year degree
    6=Professional degree
    7=Doctorate
    8=Prefer not to answer 
    
Political Party: Generally speaking, do you consider yourself a Republican, Democrat, Independent, or something else? 
    1=Republican
    2=Democrat
    3=Independent
    4=Other
    5=Prefer not to answer 
    
Race1: Which categories describe you? Please select all that apply. (Race2, Race3, Race4 used for those who selected more than one race)
    1=White
    2=Hispanic, Latinx, or Spanish Origin
    3=Black or African American
    4=American Indian or Alaska Native
    5=Asian
    6=Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
    7=Middle Eastern or North African
    8=Other
    9=Prefer not to answer 
    
Income: What was your annual total household income during the last year, before taxes?
    1=Less than $20,000
    2=$20,000-$34,999
    3=$35,000-$49,999
    4=$50,000-$74,999
    5=$75,000-$99,999
    6=$100,000-$149,999
    7=$150,000 or more
    8=Prefer not to answer 
    
Duration: Length of time spent completing the survey in seconds.

## Additional Information and Support
For more information, please contact the data assemblers, **Zoe Wong** (zoe.wong@duke.edu) and **Molly Bruce** (molly.bruce@lawnet.duke.edu)